# Credit Risk Classification

## Background
In this Challenge, you’ll use various techniques to train and evaluate a model based on loan risk. You’ll use a dataset of historical lending activity from a peer-to-peer lending services company to build a model that can identify the creditworthiness of borrowers.

## Instructions
* The instructions for this Challenge are divided into the following subsections:
* Split the Data into Training and Testing Sets
* Create a Logistic Regression Model with the Original Data
* Predict a Logistic Regression Model with Resampled Training Data
* Write a Credit Risk Analysis Report

### Split the Data into Training and Testing Sets
Open the starter code notebook and use it to complete the following steps:
* Read the lending_data.csv data from the Resources folder into a Pandas DataFrame.
* Create the labels set (y) from the “loan_status” column, and then create the features (X) DataFrame from the remaining columns.
* Split the data into training and testing datasets by using train_test_split.

### Create a Logistic Regression Model with the Original Data
Use your knowledge of logistic regression to complete the following steps:
* Fit a logistic regression model by using the training data (X_train and y_train).
* Save the predictions for the testing data labels by using the testing feature data (X_test) and the fitted model.
* Evaluate the model’s performance by doing the following:  
** Calculate the accuracy score of the model.  
** Generate a confusion matrix.  
** Print the classification report.  
* Answer the following question: How well does the logistic regression model predict both the 0 (healthy loan) and 1 (high-risk loan) labels?

## Overview of the Analysis
The purpose of this challenge is to test two Machine Learning Models and decide if either of them are good predictors of healthy or high-risk loans. The data set includes information about borrowers such as their DTI (debt-to-income), late payments, total loan amount, interest rate, and more. We split the data into training and test data to make predictions.


## Results
Using bulleted lists, describe the balanced accuracy scores and the precision and recall scores of all machine learning models.

* Machine Learning Model 1:  
** Accuracy: 99%. 
** Precision for healthy loans: 100%. 
** Recall for healthy loans: 99%. 
** Precision for risky loans: 85%. 
** Recall for risky loans: 91%. 

* Machine Learning Model 2:
** Accuracy: 99%. 
** Precision for healthy loans: 100%. 
** Recall for healthy loans: 99%. 
** Precision for risky loans: 84%. 
** Recall for risky loans: 99%. 

## Summary
The 2nd Machine Learning Model is performing much better. Although they have the same accuracy, the recall jumps to .99 from .91 on recall for risky loans in the 2nd model. This means fewer high-risk loans are being mislabeled as healthy by the model. This is a big deal to the bank as one of their main goals is to minimize risk. I would recommend the 2nd model.

## References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
